A version of this story appeared in Pop Life Chronicles, CNN's weekly entertainment newsletter. To get it in your inbox, sign up for free here. (CNN)Summertime makes me think of wedding season. Love is in the air — beautiful brides, handsome grooms. Not to mention an open bar. What could be better? Well, when the party's over, I also love that I never have to worry about running out of things to watch and listen to these days. On that note, the first offering in this newsletter happens to feature a husband-and-wife comedy duo that you may love.  Three things to watch 'God's Favorite Idiot' Real-life spouses Ben Falcone and Melissa McCarthy star in this comedy series about the least likely man for God to tap to help the world in the battle against Satan and a coming apocalypse. Falcone and McCarthy have a great partnership in both marriage and their careers, so they alone are worth the price of admission. And, yes, given all that's happening now, the end of the world as comedy might seem weird. But trust me — if you like quirky, this is for you. The show is streaming on Netflix. 'Father of the Bride' Did you get a save the date for this one? There have been plenty of adaptations of "Father of the Bride," but this is the first one featuring a Latinx cast. Andy García and Gloria Estefan star as a less than happily married couple whose daughter is getting married in this remake with plenty of modern twists (including the daughter proposing and a guide from a Zen center as the first pick for officiant). Perfect for wedding season, yes? The movie is streaming on HBO Max, which shares a parent company with CNN. 'Becoming Elizabeth' As regular Pop Life readers know, I can't get enough of content about the British royal family, past and present. "Becoming Elizabeth" is the latest entry into the cannon, telling the dramatized story of the 16th century orphaned teen and daughter of Henry VIII who would go on to become Queen Elizabeth I. Of course, it being a cable series, there's some sex, intrigue and tons of drama. I really enjoyed the episodes I screened because it can be a challenge to tell fresh, engaging stories about such an iconic historic figure. The series is streaming on Starz. Two things to listen to Isn't it ironic that Alanis Morissette has a new album coming out? I could not resist using that famous Morissette lyric, given that her latest project, "The Storm Before the Calm," may not exactly be what some are expecting. That's because it's an album of guided meditations. "Meditating rests my interior, to the point where I can have access to ideas and visions and inspirations," she told Rolling Stone. "I can hear my own capital-S Self." "The Storm Before the Calm" dropped Friday. Let's dance. That's what Perfume Genius would have us do with his latest, titled "Ugly Season." The artist born Michael Hadreas originally composed the project as an accompaniment to an immersive dance piece in collaboration with choreographer Kate Wallich, and it reflects his sheer love of music. "I've always been music-obsessed," Hadreas told American Songwriter. "I have a lot of memories attached to music, to dancing and singing, becoming obsessed with wanting to hear certain songs again from the radio." The new album was released Friday.  One thing to talk about As I tweeted, I didn't expect to get so emotional while watching the new Netflix documentary about Jennifer Lopez titled "Halftime." But I did. The retrospective of her life and career is set against the backdrop of her prepping for the 2020 Super Bowl halftime show. I was beyond impressed with her drive, passion and desire to represent for her culture. I had also forgotten how good Lopez was in 2019's "Hustlers" and how she was snubbed during awards season that year. Above all, there was something about seeing a woman of color in her 50s  — when so much of Hollywood rewards and celebrates youth — doing the damn thing and owning it all. Thanks for the inspiration, J. Lo.  Something to sip on Johnny Depp and Amber Heard's defamation trial is over, although it doesn't feel like it. Earlier this week, Heard talked to NBC News' Savannah Guthrie about the case, in which both she and her ex-husband were found liable but she faced larger financial penalties. Heard not only reconfirmed her allegations of abuse against Depp, but she also talked about how the general public seemingly viewed the legal back and forth between the two (they were both suing each other, and the testimony dredged up plenty of ugliness between the former spouses). "I would not blame the average person for looking at this and how it's been covered and not think that it is Hollywood brats at their worst," she told Guthrie. "But what people don't understand is it's actually so much bigger than that." For weeks, the trial garnered lots of attention and commentary. But at the end of the day, the argument could be made that no one really won because both Heard and Depp had the doors opened to what appeared to be an incredibly toxic and dysfunctional relationship. No matter where either of their lives or careers go, that private strife laid bare will always follow them both.   