(CNN)Clarence House said it would not comment on what it calls "supposed anonymous private conversations with The Prince of Wales" after British newspaper The Times reported that Prince Charles privately described the UK government's controversial plan to send asylum-seekers to Rwanda "appalling." "He said he was more than disappointed at the policy," The Times reported, quoting an anonymous source. "He said he thinks the government's whole approach is appalling." CNN has not independently verified The Times report. Clarence House told CNN in a statement that the Prince of Wales remains politically neutral. "We would not comment on supposed anonymous private conversations with The Prince of Wales, except to restate that he remains politically neutral. Matters of policy are decisions for Government," Clarence House said.  The Times reported the Prince of Wales feared the controversial policy would loom over the Commonwealth Heads of Government summit taking place later this month in Kigali, Rwanda, where he is expected to represent Queen Elizabeth II. In response to The Times report, a UK government spokesperson told CNN in a statement: "Our world-leading Partnership with Rwanda will see those making dangerous, unnecessary and illegal journeys to the UK relocated there to have their claims considered and rebuild their lives. There is no one single solution to the global migration crisis, but doing nothing is not an option and this partnership will help break the business model of criminal gangs and prevent loss of life." "Rwanda is a fundamentally safe and secure country with a track record of supporting asylum seekers and we are confident the agreement is fully compliant with all national and international law," the statement adds. The UK government announced in April that it had agreed a deal to send asylum-seekers to the East African country, in a move that it insisted was aimed at disrupting people-smuggling networks and deterring migrants from making the dangerous Channel crossing to England from Europe. On Friday, the UK's plan to send asylum-seekers to Rwanda as early as next week was green-lit, after the High Court in London denied an injunction brought by campaigners to block the first flight due to leave on Tuesday. The Home Office's scheme is under judicial review at the Royal Courts, where a ruling on its legality is expected in late July. Human Rights groups have said they will appeal the decision. Care4Calais, one of the human rights groups that brought the initial challenge to block the deportations, said they have been given permission to appeal the ruling on Monday. 