(CNN)They were at places that seemed safe -- but few spaces in America are guaranteed safe anymore. At least a dozen people were killed and more than 60 injured in at least 10 mass shootings this weekend in the United States. Some were at graduation parties, a nightclub, a popular entertainment district or  a strip mall. The bloodshed comes as the nation grieves a spate of killings this past month, including a massacre at an elementary school in Texas; a deadly assault at a medical facility in Oklahoma; a racist rampage at a supermarket in New York; and an attack on a Taiwanese church service in California. The US has suffered at least 246 mass shootings in 2022 -- far more than there have been days so far in the year, according to the Gun Violence Archive. In 2020, there were 161 mass shootings through June 5; in 2019, that number was 154. The non-profit and CNN both define a mass shooting as one in which at least four people are shot, excluding the shooter.  Here's where mass shootings took place across the country over the weekend: -- In Socorro, Texas, five people were wounded after a shooter fired into a crowd gathered for a high school graduation party, Police Chief David Burton said. All five wounded are teenagers, including two who were in critical condition, he said. -- In Summerton, South Carolina, one person was killed and at least seven others were wounded at a graduation party. -- In Philadelphia, at least two people were killed and 11 others hit by gunfire at a bustling entertainment district. A third person who died might have been one of the shooters, police said. -- In Chattanooga, Tennessee, two people were killed and 14 were wounded at or near a nightclub. -- In Phoenix, one person was killed and eight others wounded at a strip mall. The slain victim was a 14-year-old girl, police said. -- In Mesa, Arizona, two people were killed and two others were wounded. -- In Omaha, Nebraska, one person was killed and three others were wounded -- In Chesterfield, Virginia, one person was killed and five others were wounded. -- In Macon, Georgia, one person was killed and three others were wounded. -- In Saginaw, Michigan, three people were killed and two people were wounded. CNN's Hannah Sarisohn, Claudia Dominguez and Perviaz Shallwani contributed to this report.