(CNN)Chris Pratt understands that social media trolling tends to accompany success in Hollywood, but he'd like to do his best to protect his family from it. In a new interview with Men's Health, the actor addressed the public backlash he received last November over an Instagram post he wrote about his wife, Katherine Schwarzenegger. "I said something like, 'Find someone who looks at you the way my wife looks at me.' And then I gave her some s*** in the thing and said, 'But I love you. I'm so thankful for my wife—she gave me a beautiful, healthy daughter," Pratt recalled. "Then a bunch of articles came out and said, 'That's so cringeworthy. I can't believe Chris Pratt would thank her for a healthy daughter when his first child was born premature. That's such a dig at his ex-wife.' And I'm like, That is f***ed up. My son's gonna read that one day. He's nine. And it's etched in digital stone." Pratt and Schwarzenegger are parents to two young daughters. He shares son Jack with his ex-wife Anna Faris. "It really f***ing bothered me, dude. I cried about it," Pratt told Men's Health. "I was like, I hate that these blessings in my life are—to the people close to me—a real burden." In the article, Pratt also addressed misperceptions about his relationship with organized religion after he spoke about God during an acceptance speech at the MTV Movie & TV Awards in 2018. "I didn't know that I would kind of become the face of religion when really I'm not a religious person. I think there's a distinction between being religious—adhering to the customs created by man, oftentimes appropriating the awe reserved for who I believe is a very real God—and using it to control people, to take money from people, to abuse children, to steal land, to justify hatred. Whatever it is. The evil that's in the heart of every single man has glommed on to the back of religion and come along for the ride." Pratt next stars in the Amazon Prime Video thriller series "The Terminal List," about a Navy SEAL whose platoon is killed in action. 