(CNN)Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky will deliver a virtual address Wednesday to members of Congress, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer announced. The address by the Ukrainian President comes amid Russia's ongoing unprovoked and deadly invasion of the country and as Ukraine continues to press the United States for more assistance as it fights back. "As war rages on in Ukraine, it is with great respect and admiration for the Ukrainian people that we invite all Members of the House and Senate to attend a Virtual Address to the United States Congress delivered by President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine on Wednesday, March 16th at 9:00 a.m," Pelosi and Schumer wrote in a letter to members. There is widespread bipartisan support among US lawmakers for aid to Ukraine, and just last week Congress approved an emergency aid package with $13.6 billion in humanitarian, defensive and economic assistance to the embattled country. In addition to that, Zelensky recently pressed President Joe Biden during their latest call for more sanctions to further squeeze Russia, CNN has learned. According to multiple sources familiar with the call, Zelensky specifically asked Biden for further efforts to cut off Russia from international trade and to continue targeting the Russian elite, as the US has continued to add more oligarchs and their families to its sanctions list. Zelensky also mentioned closing off Russia's access to international waterways during the call. In their letter to lawmakers, Pelosi and Schumer reaffirmed US support for Ukraine amid the war. "The Congress remains unwavering in our commitment to supporting Ukraine as they face (Russian President Vladimir) Putin's cruel and diabolical aggression, and to passing legislation to cripple and isolate the Russian economy as well as deliver humanitarian, security and economic assistance to Ukraine," they wrote. "We look forward to the privilege of welcoming President Zelenskyy's address to the House and Senate and to convey our support to the people of Ukraine as they bravely defend democracy," the two top congressional Democrats said. CNN's Kaitlan Collins, Annie Grayer and Manu Raju contributed to this report.