A version of this story appeared in Pop Life Chronicles, CNN's weekly entertainment newsletter. To get it in your inbox, sign up for free here. (CNN)Another week, another time when the world feels like it is on fire. I have nothing witty or wise to say. Just that when it all feels too much, don't feel guilty about retreating a bit into TV, movies, music, books or whatever makes you happy. Because these days, self-care feels like an act of revolution.  Three things to watch 'The Tourist' Jamie Dornan has been turning in some great work these past few years. Whether as the sexy serial killer in the series "The Fall" or in the role of "Pa" in the Oscar-nominated "Belfast," he seems to bring it every time. In "The Tourist," Dornan stars as a man who wakes up from a horrible car accident with no memory. And attempting to discover who he is leads to not only some danger, but also more questions. The thriller is currently streaming on HBO Max, which is owned by CNN's parent company. 'Worst Roommate Ever' Netflix has definitely established itself as the sweet spot when it comes to true crime. The latest involves squatters, con artists and killers who, as it turns out, don't at all make good roommates. If you thought that person you lived with who was always late with the rent or ate your leftovers was a nightmare, think again. The limited series is streaming now. 'West Side Story' There is still time to watch the Oscar-nominated films. The "West Side Story" remake arrives on streaming this week for those who are either into musicals or itching to see how this one stacks up against the 1961 original. The new film is directed by Steven Spielberg and could make history if Ariana DeBose wins the Academy Award for best supporting actress, given that not only is she an openly queer, Afro-Latina performer, but Latina Rita Moreno (who also appears in the remake) won that award for the same role in the original. "West Side Story" is streaming on Disney+. Two things to listen to Kevin Hart and Charlamagne Tha God have teamed with actor and activist Erika Alexander to bring attention to missing Black women and girls. Alexander is hosting a podcast, "Finding Tamika," which features the case of Tamika Huston, a 24-year-old Black woman from Spartanburg, South Carolina, who went missing in 2004. Her case "became a rallying cry for other missing Black women in America and led to a growing demand to expose a system that ignores missing girls and women of color." The podcast is being presented by Hart and Charlamagne Tha God's SBH productions and is playing on Audible. Spotify has launched a "bookcast" tied to Dolly Parton and James Patterson's "Run, Rose, Run." The country legend has teamed up with author Patterson for the novel about an aspiring female artist who goes to Nashville to pursue a career in music. The bookcast "will combine excerpts of their co-authored fiction novel with its original soundtrack written, produced, and recorded by Parton," according to a press release from Spotify. Episodes are already out, with the final episodes being released by March 7.  One thing to talk about Rihanna is pregnancy goals, even if you aren't planning on having a baby. She and boyfriend/baby daddy rapper A$AP Rocky have been out and about since going public in January with the news that they are expecting a child together. No surprise that Rihanna, who is a fashion mogul, has been photographed all over in beautiful outfits that fully show off her baby bump. Her man told Extra TV that he's "never seen a female look so beautiful pregnant" — and who can disagree with him? Cheers to one of the already best dressed celebrity babies ever. Something to sip on It feels like the world has rallied around Ukraine in the face of the country being invaded by Russia. That includes the creative community. From the attendees at the recent Screen Actors Guild Awards in California to the artists who have canceled their concerts in Russia, the message has been loud and clear: support for the country besieged by Russian forces incurring loss of life and destruction. As heartbreaking footage and images continue to come out of Ukraine, any sanctions or actions of support feel like the very least the rest of us can do.   