(CNN)Sharon Osbourne has said her latest facelift left her looking like a Cyclops. The 69-year-old TV personality underwent the five-and-a-half-hour cosmetic procedure back in October. However, she was stunned by the "horrendous" results when the bandages were removed, and her face appeared lopsided. Recounting her initial shock in an interview with Britain's Sunday Times, she said: "I looked like one of those f**king mummies that they wrap (with bandages)." According to Osbourne, the surgery "hurt like hell" and the original result was far from what she expected. "I'm telling you, it was horrendous. (To the surgeon) I'm, like, 'You've got to be f**king joking.' One eye was different to the other. I looked like a f**king Cyclops," the star told the paper. Osbourne, who is married to Black Sabbath rocker Ozzy Osbourne, said her husband even offered to fund a correction, telling her: "'I don't care how much it costs, we'll get it redone.'" Despite her initial displeasure, the former "America's Got Talent" judge said she decided to allow her face to settle and is now happy with her looks. Osbourne has previously been open about her numerous cosmetic procedures, including a facelift she had in 2019.  "I had this thing where they lifted up my mouth and then for the first like week I'm like I couldn't feel my mouth, I can hardly feel my mouth now, to be honest with you," she said on The Kelly Clarkson Show that year. "I couldn't find my mouth. It was numb and it was up on one side and I looked like Elvis and all the kids and Ozzy are going, 'Why are you snarling at me?' And I'm like, 'I'm not snarling; I'm not doing anything!'" Osbourne's latest surgery revelation comes weeks after she announced that she will be hosting a prime-time talk show alongside Piers Morgan on new British TV channel TalkTV. Osbourne left her regular spot on CBS' daytime talk show "The Talk" in 2021, following a heated discussion about racism with her black co-host Sheryl Underwood, during which she defended Morgan over his controversial departure from ITV's "Good Morning Britain." 