(CNN)After postponing the start of her Las Vegas residency, Adele surprised a group of disappointed fans with a video call at Caesars Palace. James Mason Fox told CNN someone from the singer's team held up a phone on Friday so Adele and fans in a pop-up merchandise shop could see each other. He said only a few people were allowed in the shop at a time because of Covid-19 protocols. Fox shot video of the encounter and you can see Adele smiling and waving and trying to talk the group, who were cheering and chanting "It's okay, It's okay." "I had no clue what she was saying because we were just losing our minds," Fox said. "I could tell she was crying and you could tell on her face kind of what she was saying. You didn't even have to hear it." Fox said he remembers her saying something like, "this is not how I wanted it to be." Friday was supposed to be the first of Adele's series of concerts at The Colosseum at Caesars Palace that were scheduled to run through April 16. Adele announced the delay in a tearful Instagram video on Thursday, saying "we've been absolutely destroyed by delivery delays and Covid." She said half of her team was "down with Covid." Fox, who flew from Nashville to Las Vegas just for the concert, found out the show wouldn't be happening just as the jet's door closed. He said he asked if he could get off, but it was too late. Fox complained about the short notice and the lack of information in a video he posted Friday on TikTok. He said he understands there's a pandemic going on, but he was still upset, disappointed and realizing how much money he'd spent on the flight, a room at Caesars Palace and other expenses. "I'm still feeling the burn financially," he said. "Because it's Adele, I wanted to go all out." Later, Fox got a message from Adele's verified Instagram account, apologizing and telling him when to go to the gift shop. He asked if it was really her and she sent a voice message saying, "yes it is, it's me." He shared the message in another TikTok video. Fox said he was the first person in line at the gift shop. Ticket holders were given gift bags with a T-shirt, magnets representing her albums,  a keychain and other goodies. The bag said "Hello" at the very bottom, referencing her 2015 hit song. The experience changed what would have been the worst trip ever into "literally being like the coolest story ever," he said. "It just shows how you're supposed to treat your fans," said Fox, who said he's a songwriter himself. "There are so many artists who would not do what she's done." 