(CNN)Romelu Lukaku has apologized to Chelsea fans for the explosive interview he gave to Sky Italia, saying "I am sorry for the upset I have caused." In the interview, which was recorded back in December but released last week, Lukaku said he was "not happy" with his current situation at the London club and was frustrated by the system head coach Thomas Tuchel had decided to use. The Belgian striker also said he would one day like to return to Inter Milan, causing widespread anger among Chelsea fans. Lukaku has insisted that was not his intention but says he "totally" understands the fans' frustrations. "I am sorry for the upset I have caused," he told Chelsea TV. "You guys know the connection I have to the club and I totally understand you guys being upset. "I should have been much clearer in my message. The interview was about saying goodbye to the Inter fans and it wasn't about trying to disrespect the [Chelsea] fans, my teammates, the club and the manager. READ: Thomas Tuchel surprised by Lukaku's 'unhelpful' comments on dissatisfaction and Inter Milan return "They made a lot of effort to bring me here and I wanted to come back. I have been on a mission since I left, so I totally understand the frustration of the fans, but now, it is on me to make sure I show my commitment 100%." Lukaku has scored seven goals in 18 matches since returning to Chelsea in a club record £97.5 million [$132 million] deal but has not always found himself in the starting lineup. Tuchel dropped Lukaku from the squad completely for the huge Premier League game against Liverpool following the release of the Sky Italia interview and said in Tuesday's press conference that he will also be fined. "There will be some disciplinary action and he will accept it," Tuchel told reporters. "It's not a small thing, it's not the biggest thing and it doesn't make a comeback impossible. Absolutely not. "But something happened and he will be fined -- he needs to accept it." Lukaku will now return to the squad for Tuesday's Carabao Cup semifinal first leg against Tottenham, as Tuchel said the striker "feels the responsibility to clean up the mess." 