(CNN)Former Olympic figure skater Michelle Kwan has said she is "overjoyed" after welcoming her first child. The retired sports star announced the birth of her daughter, Kalista Belle Kwan, in a post on her Instagram page Wednesday night. "I'm overjoyed and tears of happiness are streaming down my face as I share the news of the arrival of Kalista Belle Kwan," she told her 252,000 followers. "I've always wanted to be a mom and, to me, she's a perfect miracle. I had a hard time picturing what she might look like yet it seems like she's been in my life forever," Kwan wrote. She added that it had "been a challenging journey to motherhood (not to mention a very long labor!!!) and I'm glad I never gave up."  Kwan went on to state that she felt "grateful to have had the support of so many during this time," including medical staff, friends and family. The 41-year-old former champion also shared her journey into motherhood with a time-lapse video that captured the growth of her bump through her pregnancy. "I've wanted to share this happy news for many months but each milestone seemed to be exciting and daunting at the same time," she explained. "Each step of the way, I knew that there was still more time needed until I could hold her in my arms. Here's a quick montage of the last 9 months to catch you all up."  Kwan, who won a silver medal at the Winter Olympics 1998 and bronze in 2002, is one of the most decorated figure skaters in US history. She won more than 40 championships. She concluded the post by sending her support to "all the mom's out there (as we all know, moms rule the world!)." Kwan wished those trying to conceive "all the success and love," adding: "You're not alone on this path and I'm pulling for you." The new mother was soon inundated with congratulatory messages from fans and fellow celebrities. Fashion designer Vera Wang commented: "So thrilled for her and for you. What an incredible mom you will be. Cant wait to meet her." Actress Sarah Michelle Gellar wrote: "I know how you've longed for this moment. She's perfect." "She is so cute I can not even," posted 'Queer Eye' star Jonathan Van Ness, adding: "So happy for you queen omgoshhh are we all cryin??" 