(CNN)The US Supreme Court's decision Thursday to block President Joe Biden's vaccine and testing requirements aimed at large businesses -- but still allow a vaccine mandate for certain health care workers to go into effect -- now leaves many employers mulling over what happens next. Previously, the Biden administration's Occupational Safety and Health Administration mandate required that businesses with 100 or more employees ensure that each worker is fully vaccinated or tests for Covid-19 on at least a weekly basis. Now, many companies, businesses and employers are left to decide on their own whether to issue any Covid-19 vaccine or testing requirements or their workers. What happens next for large businesses The Supreme Court blocked only the federal government requiring vaccine and testing mandates within large workplaces, so there is nothing that prohibits businesses from developing such mandates on their own, Dr. Georges Benjamin, executive director of the American Public Health Association, told CNN on Friday.  "Businesses can still do it," Benjamin said, though he added that the federal requirement would have helped "level the playing field" across all large businesses when it comes to what types of Covid-19 protocols they have in place for their employees. Now, "unions could pressure those businesses who don't want to do this to protect their members," Benjamin said. "I think the individual employees can demand that their employer do this." For the large businesses that no longer fall under the Biden administration's mandate to require employees to get vaccinated or be tested, many may still decide to require their employees to be fully vaccinated or undergo regular testing, Dr. Josh Sharfstein, vice dean for public health practice and community engagement professor at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, told CNN on Friday. "These businesses are going to have an important decision to make, and hopefully they will prioritize the health of their workers," Sharfstein said. "I think that some employers will decide to impose a similar policy on their own," he said. "There are many employees who are reassured by the policy, and so they may be supportive of their employers putting in place a policy program that protects their health."  There are some other avenues through which large businesses still may require employees to be fully vaccinated or undergo routine testing, said Dr. Mark McClellan, a former commissioner of the US Food and Drug Administration and founding director of the Duke-Margolis Center for Health Policy at Duke University, who also is an independent director on the Johnson & Johnson board. For instance, the Supreme Court decision "does not affect the ability of state or local governments to require vaccinations in businesses, and we've seen a lot of places around the country where that continues to happen," McClellan told CNN. "It does not restrict businesses' ability to require vaccination of their employees or their customers, for that matter." Overall, "it's now in the businesses' hands," Benjamin said. He added that the Biden administration "could pursue a more narrow strategy and put out another standard," as one of the criticisms of the original approach was that the administration didn't issue such Covid-19 requirements industry by industry. For now, the health care industry is still under the original vaccine requirements -- specifically health care workers in hospitals, nursing homes and other facilities that participate in Medicare and Medicaid programs. What happens next for health care workers According to government estimates, the health care worker mandate regulates more than 10.3 million workers in the United States. Covered staff were originally required to get the first vaccine dose by December 6, and the mandate allows for some religious and medical exemptions.  Now, health care workers covered by the Biden administration's vaccine mandate will have until March 15 to be fully vaccinated in the 24 states where the mandate was reinstated by the Supreme Court. Twenty-five other states and DC continue to face the February 28 deadline for health care workers to be fully vaccinated that already was in place, as the mandate had not been blocked in those states before the Supreme Court order that came down Thursday. This means there will continue to be "very high vaccination rates" among health care workers, McClellan said, and they could increase further since some health care workers have not previously been vaccinated. The mandate -- issued by the US Department of Health and Human Services' Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services -- remains blocked in the lone state of Texas. Texas brought its own lawsuit challenging the mandate separate from the cases that were before the Supreme Court, and a preliminary injunction in that case still stands. What happens next for public health There is growing concern that without some workplaces requiring vaccinations, fewer unvaccinated people could move forward with their Covid-19 shots. "One thing that will happen as a result of the requirement not going through in general for businesses -- it's an opportunity to kind of take the volume down, or reduce the heat a little bit, and think about what are some other ways to engage and getting to more consensus locally on vaccinations," McClellan said.  After the Supreme Court decision, Benjamin said, it is even more important for public health officers to continue communicating the benefits of Covid-19 vaccinations to the public and focus on getting unvaccinated people vaccinated -- including through the workplace. "I think we should continue to adamantly articulate the value of vaccinations," Benjamin said. He added that public health departments also can help businesses set up in-house vaccine and testing protocols, strategies and even vaccine clinics. "We can work with the business community to make sure they have access to tests and that their employees know how to get tested, not just when they're symptomatic, but routine testing as part of a test or vaccine strategy. If a business decides it wants to do that anyway, the health department can help them with strategies and how to get access to tests," Benjamin said. "And if a business wants to have a vaccine mandate, they can have mass vaccination clinics at their site of business." CNN's Tierney Sneed contributed to this report.