A version of this story appeared in CNN's What Matters newsletter. To get it in your inbox, sign up for free here. Washington (CNN)The Omicron variant's rapid spread has pushed the US into another confusing pandemic moment as Americans try to strike a responsible balance between evolving public health guidance and their personal risk tolerance. While President Joe Biden sought to bring some relief in remarks from the White House on Tuesday -- announcing that he is doubling the US order for Pfizer's antiviral pill, Paxlovid -- the news has little immediate impact on vaccinated Americans, whom he told to "be concerned" but "don't be alarmed." "And if you're unvaccinated, you have some reason as to be alarmed. Many of you will experience severe illness if you get Covid-19 if you're not vaccinated. Some will die -- needlessly die." Here's a look at where things stand: Hospitalizations keep climbing. Covid-19 hospitalizations in the US have surpassed September's peak during the Delta surge and are quickly approaching the record high from last year, according to data from the US Department of Health and Human Services. CNN's Deidre McPhillips writes: There are nearly 113,000 people currently hospitalized with Covid-19 -- jumping nearly 10,000 since Monday. During the Delta surge over the summer, Covid-19 hospitalizations peaked at about 104,000 on September 1, 2021. Hospitalizations reached a record high about a year ago, with more than 142,000 people hospitalized with Covid-19 on January 14, 2021. Current hospitalizations are nearly 80% of the way to that peak. Omicron's outsize role. The variant caused 95.4% of new Covid-19 cases in the US last week -- significantly higher than the previous week, according to estimates posted Tuesday by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In recent weeks, Omicron has risen rapidly in estimates, accounting for: 8.0% of cases the week ending December 11.37.9% of cases the week ending December 18.77.0% of cases the week ending December 25.95.4% of cases the week ending January 1. New isolation guidance. The CDC updated its guidance on the recommended Covid-19 isolation period Tuesday, telling people that if they have access to Covid-19 tests and want to take them, the best approach is to use rapid tests toward the end of their five-day isolation periods. Critically, the updated recommendations do not advise tests for isolated people, but they offer guidance on how those people should respond to test results if they choose to take them. If their tests are positive, isolated people are advised to continue their isolation until 10 days after their symptoms started. If their tests are negative, isolated people can end their isolation but are advised to wear masks around other people until day 10. The CDC said the changes aim to "focus on the period when a person is most infectious. ... These updated recommendations also facilitate individual social and well-being needs, return to work, and maintenance of critical infrastructure." More boosters in more arms more quickly. The US Food and Drug Administration on Monday expanded the emergency use authorization for Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine booster to children ages 12 to 15. The agency also shortened the time needed before receiving a booster shot from at least six months after completion of the initial series to at least five months, for everyone 12 and older. The CDC on Tuesday backed the FDA's decision to shorten the interval between an initial series of Pfizer's vaccine and a booster shot, but it plans to meet with its vaccine advisory board on Wednesday to discuss the issue of expanding booster eligibility to adolescents. Although early studies have suggested Omicron causes milder illness, the variant has spread so quickly and widely that hospitals are still facing challenges in providing proper care. "This narrative that it's just a mild virus is not accurate," Dr. Peter Hotez, dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine, told CNN's Jake Tapper on Monday. "We've just done a terrible job vaccinating our kids across the country. ... So even though there's a lot of happy talk about the Omicron variant, less severe disease, when you add up all the factors ... we've got a very serious situation facing us in this country, especially for the kids." Israeli study shows promising early fourth-shot data. While US health officials say it's too early to be discussing a potential fourth dose, a preliminary Israeli study showed that a fourth dose of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine boosts a person's antibodies fivefold in the space of a week. The study has yet to be peer-reviewed or published in a medical journal. Israel began rolling out fourth shots of the Covid-19 vaccine to people 60 and older, as well as health care workers, on Monday. Israel's immunocompromised residents began receiving their second booster shots on New Year's Eve. But this study, conducted at the Sheba Medical Center just outside Tel Aviv, used healthy hospital workers as its subjects. CNN's John Bonifield, Nikki Carvajal, Elliott Gotkine, Kaitlan Collins and Derrick Hinds contributed to this report.