(CNN)Tiger Woods still hopes for a return to the PGA Tour but admits he's "frustrated" with the timeline of his recovery since the February 2021 car crash that left the 15-time major winner with serious leg injuries. "I wish I could tell you when I'm playing again; I want to know,'' Woods said during a news conference at the Genesis Invitational on Wednesday. "But I don't. My golf activity has been very limited. I can chip and putt really well. And hit short irons very well. But I haven't hit any long stuff seriously." The 46-year-old, who had previously said amputation was "on the table" following the crash, described his right leg as "altered ... (it) does not look like my left, put it that way." "My foot was a little messed up there about a year ago," he said. "The walking part is something that I'm still working on, working on strength and development in that. It takes time." "What's frustrating is it's not at my timetable," Woods added. "I want to be at a certain place, but I'm not. I've just got to continue working. I'm getting better, yes, but as I said, not at the speed and rate that I would like. You add in the age factor, too. You just don't quite heal as fast, which is frustrating." At the press conference, Woods spoke of his intention to return to competitive golf while again conceding he won't be able to play a full tour schedule. "That will never happen again," he said. "I can play certain events here and there, but on a full-time level, no, that will never happen again." Woods' only foray into competitive golf since the crash was in December 2021 alongside son Charlie at the PNC Championship at the Ritz-Carlton Golf Club Orlando, Grande Lakes in Florida, and said he was "a lot stronger" now than then. The appearance gave him hope, Woods added, that he'd be able to play with his son again in the future. "I wouldn't trade those experiences in for anything. We had two of the greatest days ever together, just he and I," he said. Like at the PNC Championship, Woods said he is still using a cart to negotiate golf courses rather than walking, also alluding to back issues which existed before his crash. Woods, a five-time Masters winner, would not say if he was planning to compete at the Masters' Par-3 contest scheduled for April at the Augusta National Golf Club. "I can do that now," he said. "But whether or not I do that... I don't know yet." 