(CNN)Grammy-winning singer Billie Eilish has denied making a dig at Travis Scott during her recent concert, after Kanye West threatened to pull out of his Coachella headline gig if she didn't apologize to Scott. Back in November, 10 concertgoers died of compression asphyxia during Scott's Astroworld concert in Houston after the packed crowd surged toward an outdoor stage where Scott was performing. Since the tragedy, it has become common practice for artists to ensure crowd safety during their shows. Eilish paused her performance at State Farm Arena in Atlanta last week after she noticed a fan having difficulty breathing. She told the audience before resuming the show: "I wait for people to be okay until I keep going."  On Thursday, West shared with his 11.2 million Instagram followers a screenshot of a post on the Instagram account @rapseatv, which commented on Eilish offering an inhaler to a distressed fan at her Atlanta concert. Although Eilish mentioned neither Scott nor Astroworld onstage, the original post, which is no longer visible, claimed the "Happier Than Ever" hitmaker "dissed" Scott. "Come on Billie we love you please apologize to Trav and to the families of the people who lost their lives," the caption to West's post read. "No one intended this to happen Trav didn't have any idea of what was happening when he was on stage and was very hurt by what happened and yes Trav will be with me at Coachella but now I need Billie to apologize before I perform," he added. Eilish denied that her comments were aimed at Scott, writing in the comment section: "literally never said a thing about Travis. was just helping a fan."  CNN has contacted West and Eilish's representatives for further comment. Both artists were announced as headline acts for the 2022 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival back in January. The annual music event, which had to pause for two years because of the pandemic, is scheduled to run on April 15-17 and April 22-24 at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, California. This year's line-up also includes Harry Styles, Megan Thee Stallion, Doja Cat, Swedish House Mafia and Lil Baby. 