(CNN)It was a good morning for the cast and creative teams of "Succession" and "Ted Lasso." The shows on Tuesday earned several nominations in the major categories for the 74th Emmy Awards, which will be held September 12. "Succession" earned the most nominations of any show, earning a total of 25 nods, including one for outstanding drama, as well as outstanding lead actor nominations for Brian Cox and Jeremy Strong. "Ted Lasso" led the comedy category, earning 20 nominations, including one for outstanding comedy series. Star Jason Sudeikis earned an outstanding lead actor nomination, while Juno Temple, Brett Goldstein and Hannah Waddingham were among those who earned individual nominations in their respective supporting acting categories. Sarah Niles, Toheeb Jimoh and Nick Mohammed also earned supporting actor nominations. "White Lotus" was a favorite in the limited series category, earning a total of 20 nominations and an incredible eight nominations in supporting acting categories. "Hacks" and "Only Murders In the Building" earned 17 nominations each, rounding out the list of top five nominated programs. See below for a list of nominees in top categories. Outstanding drama series "Better Call Saul" "Euphoria" "Ozark" "Severance" "Squid Game" "Stranger Things" "Succession" "Yellowjackets" Outstanding comedy series "Abbott Elementary" "Barry" "Curb Your Enthusiasm" "Hacks" "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel" "Only Murders in the Building" "Ted Lasso" "What We Do in the Shadows" Outstanding limited series "Dopesick" "The Dropout" "Inventing Anna" "Pam & Tommy" "The White Lotus" Outstanding lead actor in a drama series Brian Cox, "Succession" Lee Jung-jae, "Squid Game" Bob Odenkirk, "Better Call Saul" Adam Scott, "Severance" Jeremy Strong, "Succession" Outstanding lead actress in a drama series Jodie Comer, "Killing Eve" Laura Linney, "Ozark" Melanie Lynskey, "Yellowjackets" Sandra Oh, "Killing Eve" Reese Witherspoon, "The Morning Show" Zendaya, "Euphoria" Outstanding supporting actor in a drama series Nicholas Braun, "Succession" Billy Crudup, "The Morning Show" Kieran Culkin, "Succession" Park Hae-soo, "Squid Game" Matthew Macfadyen, "Succession" John Turturro, "Severance" Christopher Walken, "Severance" Oh Yeong-su, "Squid Game" Outstanding supporting actress in a drama series Patricia Arquette, "Severance" Julia Garner, "Ozark" Jung Ho-yeon, "Squid Game" Christina Ricci, "Yellowjackets" Rhea Seehorn, "Better Call Saul" J. Smith-Cameron, "Succession" Sarah Snook, "Succession" Sydney Sweeney, "Euphoria" Outstanding lead actor in a comedy series Donald Glover, "Atlanta" Bill Hader, "Barry" Nicholas Hoult, "The Great" Steve Martin, "Only Murders in the Building" Martin Short, "Only Murders in the Building" Jason Sudeikis, "Ted Lasso" Outstanding lead actress in a comedy series Rachel Brosnahan, "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel" Quinta Brunson, "Abbott Elementary" Kaley Cuoco, "The Flight Attendant" Elle Fanning, "The Great" Issa Rae, "Insecure" Jean Smart, "Hacks" Outstanding supporting actor in a comedy series Anthony Carrigan, "Barry" Brett Goldstein, "Ted Lasso" Toheeb Jimoh, "Ted Lasso" Nick Mohammed, "Ted Lasso" Tony Shalhoub, "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel" Tyler James Williams, "Abbott Elementary" Henry Winkler, "Barry" Bowen Yang, "Saturday Night Live" Outstanding supporting actress in a comedy series Alex Borstein, "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel" Hannah Einbinder, "Hacks" Janelle James, "Abbott Elementary" Kate McKinnon, "Saturday Night Live" Sarah Niles, "Ted Lasso" Sheryl Lee Ralph, "Abbott Elementary" Juno Temple, "Ted Lasso" Hannah Waddingham, "Ted Lasso" Outstanding lead actor in a limited series or TV movie Colin Firth, "The Staircase" Andrew Garfield, "Under the Banner of Heaven" Oscar Isaac, "Scenes from a Marriage" Michael Keaton, "Dopesick" Himesh Patel, "Station Eleven" Sebastian Stan, "Pam & Tommy" Outstanding lead actress in a limited series or TV movie Toni Collette, "The Staircase" Julia Garner, "Inventing Anna" Lily James, "Pam & Tommy" Sarah Paulson, "Impeachment: American Crime Story" Margaret Qualley, "Maid" Amanda Seyfried, "The Dropout" Outstanding supporting actor in a limited series or TV movie Murray Bartlett, "The White Lotus" Jake Lacy, "The White Lotus" Will Poulter, "Dopesick" Seth Rogen, "Pam & Tommy" Peter Sarsgaard, "Dopesick" Michael Stuhlbarg, "Dopesick" Steve Zahn, "The White Lotus" Outstanding supporting actress in a limited series or TV movie Connie Britton, "The White Lotus" Jennifer Coolidge, "The White Lotus" Alexandra Daddario, "The White Lotus" Kaitlyn Dever, "Dopesick" Natasha Rothwell, "The White Lotus" Sydney Sweeney, "The White Lotus" Mare Winningham, "Dopesick" Outstanding reality/competition series "The Amazing Race" "Top Chef" "RuPaul's Drag Race" "Lizzo's Watch Out for the Big Grrrls" "The Voice" "Nailed It!" Outstanding variety talk series "Last Week Tonight With John Oliver" "The Late Show With Stephen Colbert" "Late Night With Seth Meyers" "The Daily Show With Trevor Noah" "Jimmy Kimmel Live!"  