(CNN)He's better known for throwing perfect spirals than his perfect approach shots, but there seems no limit to Tom Brady's sporting talents. Enjoying yet another NFL offseason, the seven-time Super Bowl winning quarterback showcased his golfing prowess by appearing to find the bottom of the cup from way out on the fairway -- a golfing hail mary captured in mesmerizing fashion by a drone. In a video shared by Brady on Twitter, the speeding drone can be seen following the 44-year-old's swing, seamlessly tracking the ball as it arced onto the green and into the par-four hole. Though quick to confirm that it was not a hole in one, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers signal-caller reflected on a "once in a lifetime" shot, as well as the opportunity to mix things up on social media. "We've done some fun stuff, me relating to a lot of the younger generation," Brady told CNN's Andy Scholes. "I think over the years to do different little content things ... it's amazing the engagement you get." The footage has sparked plenty of online debate as to whether the shot was authentic or guided into the hole by the wonders of visual effects, with the Cincinnati Bengals' Trent Taylor among those who were unconvinced. "This is fake right?" the wide receiver tweeted. Mahomes responds The footage will have made ominous viewing for the Kansas City Chiefs' Patrick Mahomes and the Buffalo Bills' Josh Allen, who will face Brady and the Green Bay Packers' Aaron Rodgers in the hotly anticipated all-quarterback edition of "The Match" next week. The star-studded golfing matchup between young and old -- featuring  four of the last five NFL MVPs -- will get underway at Wynn Las Vegas resort on June 1. Brady's drone exploits caught the eye of 2018 MVP Mahomes, who swiftly snapped off a backhanded compliment. "Not going to lie, pretty impressive," Mahomes tweeted in response to the video. "Too bad you wasted it a week early."  Playing Mahomes and Allen, Brady will hope to improve his record, having lost in both his previous two appearances at "The Match." All four players will have open mics for the duration of the 12-hole event, allowing the quarterbacks to communicate with competitors and commentators. Live coverage -- to start at 6:30 p.m. ET -- will be televised exclusively by TNT. Turner Sports will be televising "The Match" for the sixth time since the event's inception in 2018. CNN is a division of Warner Bros. Discovery, along with HBO, Warner Bros, TNT, TBS and other media assets. CNN's Ben Morse contributed to reporting.