(CNN) The Los Angeles District Attorney's Office will not pursue felony charges against Isaiah Lee, the man accused of leaping on stage and attacking comedian Dave Chappelle during a performance a the Hollywood Bowl on Tuesday night. "After reviewing the evidence, prosecutors determined that while criminal conduct occurred, the evidence as presented did not constitute felony conduct," DA spokesperson Greg Risling said in a statement to CNN. The case has been referred to the Los Angeles City Attorney's office for misdemeanor filing consideration, according to Risling. According to L.A. County inmate records, Lee remains in police custody. CNN has reached out to the city attorney for further comment. What happened LAPD spokesperson Officer Lizeth Lomeli told CNN on Wednesday that Chappelle "had finished his act and as he was exiting the stage, a male who was part of the audience jumped on the stage and tackle(d) this celebrity to the ground." Lee, 23, was arrested and taken to a hospital for medical treatment, Lomeli said. Police described the weapon they say was taken from the suspect as a replica handgun that also included a knife blade. The motive of the apparent attack remains unclear. A representative for Chappelle released a statement Wednesday. "As unfortunate and unsettling as the incident was, Chappelle went on with the show," Carla Sims, Chappelle's representative, said in a statement to CNN. "Jamie Foxx and Chris Rock helped calm the crowd with humor before Chappelle introduced the last and featured musical guests for the evening." Sims said Chappelle is "fully cooperating" with the police investigation of the incident. Chappelle was performing at the Bowl at "Netflix is a Joke: The Festival." "We care deeply about the safety of creators and we strongly defend the right of stand-up comedians to perform on stage without fear of violence," a Netflix spokesperson told CNN in a statement on Wednesday. CNN's Chris Boyette, Lisa Respers France, Caroll Alvarado and Stella Chan contributed to this story.