(CNN Business)Some workers at Activision Blizzard have officially unionized, marking the company's first union and the video game industry's most high-profile successful organizing effort. A group of quality assurance employees at Raven Software, a gaming studio owned by Activision Blizzard (ATVI) that works on the company's popular "Call of Duty" game series, voted on Monday to form a union they are calling the Game Workers Alliance. The union will represent 28 workers, 19 of whom voted in favor of unionizing, according to the Communications Workers of America (CWA), which has been supporting the effort. "Our biggest hope is that our union serves as inspiration for the growing movement of workers organizing at video game studios to create better games and build workplaces that reflect our values and empower all of us," members of the alliance said in a statement shared by CWA. "We look forward to working with management to positively shape our working conditions and the future of Activision Blizzard through a strong union contract," they added. The unionization vote follows months of tensions between Raven and Activision Blizzard over recent layoffs. In December, dozens of software workers at Raven virtually walked out of work after Activision Blizzard laid off 12 quality assurance testers from their unit. Since then, some of the workers have continued to strike, calling for the terminated workers to be reinstated, as well as for the company to hire long-time contractors as full-time employees. "We respect and believe in the right of all employees to decide whether or not to support or vote for a union," an Activision Blizzard spokesperson told CNN Business when asked about the union vote. "We believe that an important decision that will impact the entire Raven Software studio of roughly 350 people should not be made by 19 Raven employees." The union push marks the latest effort by Activision Blizzard workers to agitate for improved workplace conditions. Last July, the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing filed a lawsuit against Activision Blizzard, alleging a "frat boy" work culture where multiple female employees were subjected to gender discrimination, sexual harassment and unequal pay. (The company told CNN at the time that it had addressed past misconduct and criticized the lawsuit as "inaccurate" and "distorted.") The suit kicked off a period of turmoil for the company, including employee walkouts, an executive shuffle and pressure on the CEO to step down. Earlier this year, Microsoft (MSFT) agreed to buy Activision Blizzard for nearly $70 billion, making it one of the biggest tech acquisitions in recent years. Microsoft has had its own challenges with workplace culture, including allegations of inappropriate workplace behavior by its founder and former CEO Bill Gates from the 2000s. (CNN has not independently confirmed all of the allegations.) -- CNN Business' Sara Ashley O'Brien contributed to this report. 