(CNN)At least one person is dead and four are critically injured after a shooting Sunday at a church in Laguna Woods, California, according to the sheriff's department. "All victims are adults and are en route to the hospital," the Orange County Sheriff's Department said in a tweet. "One victim is deceased at the scene." Another person has minor injuries, according to the tweet.  The shooting occurred at the Geneva Presbyterian Church during a lunch reception to honor a former pastor of a Taiwanese congregation that uses the church for its worship services, according to Tom Cramer, a Presbytery leader. Police have a suspect in custody, Orange County Undersheriff Jeff Hallock said during a news conference on Sunday evening. He is believed to be an Asian man in his 60s who doesn't live in the area, according to Hallock. Investigators are working to determine whether he has any connections to the church or its congregants, according to a statement from the sheriff's department. Police do not yet have a motive, Hallock said. The suspect was detained at the scene after a group of people at the church were able to hogtie his legs with an extension cord and confiscate at least two handguns from him, Hallock said.  "That group of churchgoers displayed what we believe is exceptional heroism in interfering or intervening to stop the suspect," Hallock said. Authorities said the victims injured in the shooting included four Asian men, ages 66, 75, 82 and 92, and one Asian woman age 86. "The identity of the decedent will be released pending official identification by the Coroner and notification of next of kin," a statement from the sheriff's office said. About 30-40 people were in attendance at the reception, according to Hallock. California Governor Gavin Newsom said his office is "working closely with local law enforcement." "No one should have to fear going to their place of worship. Our thoughts are with the victims, community, and all those impacted by this tragic event," Newsom said in a tweet. The Taiwanese congregation, which became a sister congregation at Geneva Presbyterian Church about five or six years ago, always holds a lunch after their Sunday morning service, Laguna Woods Mayor Pro Tem Cynthia Conners told CNN. "We'll see what we can do to meet with the members of the congregation, we'll bring in someone from the Orange County Human Rights Commission ... and try to make sure that the Asian members of our community feel as safe as all the other members of our community, although I would have to say I think we all feel a little less safe today," Conners said. CNN's Jenn Selva, Amanda Jackson, Dawn Tamir and Jordan Guzzardo contributed to this report.