(CNN)Eric Clapton, the famed guitarist who has expressed skepticism about Covid-19 vaccine mandates and lockdowns, has postponed some tour dates after testing positive for Covid-19. Clapton's diagnosis was confirmed in a Monday post on his official Facebook page. He tested positive after performing at London's Royal Albert Hall earlier this month, according to the post, and had to cancel appearances in Zurich and Milan. "He has been told by his medical advisors that if he were to resume traveling and performing too soon, it could substantially delay his full recovery," the post read. "Eric is also anxious to avoid passing on any infection to any of his band, crew, Promoters, their staff and of course the fans."  The Rock & Roll Hall of Fame inductee has expressed skepticism about vaccine mandates, lockdowns and other measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. In 2020, Clapton performed a song Van Morrison wrote, called "Stand and Deliver," featuring lyrics that were critical of the lockdown in the UK. Last year, Clapton called the side effects of his second Covid-19 vaccine "disastrous" and said the safety of the vaccines had been overstated due to "propaganda," Rolling Stone reported. The vaccines approved for use in the US have been rigorously tested and deemed safe and effective by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the US Food and Drug Administration and the National Institutes of Health. Clapton said he took the AstraZeneca vaccine, which is not authorized for use in the US but has been authorized by the World Health Organization for use in other countries, including the UK. Some people do experience side effects after being vaccinated against Covid-19. The post on Clapton's Facebook page said it was "very frustrating" that Clapton should test positive after "avoiding Covid throughout lockdown and throughout the period when travel restrictions have been in place." Clapton will reschedule the missed tour dates in the next six months, the Facebook post said. 